# prelim

We loaded the data from the website [*everynoise*](https://www.everynoise.com)
and we have analyzed the how using the degree as a support will give us various subsets of the network at hand. This is good for getting a look at the degree distribution of the network. In addition to this we also gathered the intrinsic song / playlist data via the Spotify API, and calculated average values for each subgenre for all $12$ features. Then we constructed histograms for the distribution of frequencies for various values of the features. Next we found used the correlation map to find features that are highly correlated with each other. Afterwords we plotted K-Means with $5$ clusters (arbitrary decision) against several combinations of 2 various features. Next we plotted point clouds with respect to the three axes, so we have $\binom{12}{3}$ plots (Obviously we are not going to use all of these). We also gathered data for the top genres across $675$ universities in the United States, and attempted to incorporate spring rank on them.

Next steps include using Gaussian Mixture Models on playlist data to also find potential communities. In addition to this PCA or some other form of dimensionality reduction (SVD) will be useful to compress all of these subgenres into their most significant directions in order to more easily visualize the latent structure that is there. For the top genres across the US, we need to finish up Spring Rank Hamiltonian in order to find the top $100$ genres across U.S. Schools. With these top 100 genres we can then run K-Means (or GMM) to find communities, and also construct graphs where the only nodes are those top 100 genres.